Shorten and modernize README (#2769)
grafana/k6: README.md

k6 is built to be simple, powerful, and extensible. Every commit to this repo aims to help create an application with **high performance and excellent developer experience**.
Some key features include:

- **Configurable load generation.** Even lower-end machines can simulate lots of traffic.
- **Tests as code.** Reuse scripts, modularize logic, version control, and integrate tests with your CI.
- **A full-featured API.** The scripting API is packed with features that help you simulate real application traffic.
- **An embedded JavaScript engine.** The performance of Go, the scripting simplicity of JavaScript.
- **Multiple Protocol support**. HTTP, WebSockets, gRPC, and more.
- **Large extension ecosystem.** You can extend k6 to support your needs. And many people have already shared their extensions with the community!
- **Flexible metrics storage and visualization**. Summary statistics or granular metrics, exported to the service of your choice.

This is what load testing looks like in the 21st century.

## Example script

```js
import http from "k6/http";
import { check, sleep } from "k6";

> 

Author: ```suggestion

// test configuration
```

export const options = {
  thresholds: {
    // Test that 99% of requests finish within 3000ms.
    http_req_duration: ["p(99) < 3000"],
  },
  // Ramp the number virtual users up and down
  stages: [
    { duration: "30s", target: 15 },
    { duration: "1m", target: 15 },
    { duration: "20s", target: 0 },
  ],
};

> // code the user logic

Author: ```suggestion
// The virtual user behavior logic
```

<img src="assets/github-hr.png" alt="---" />
<br/>

**k6** is a modern load-testing tool, built on [our years of experience](https://k6.io/about) in the performance and testing industries.

> k6 is built to be powerful, extensible, and full-featured. The key design goals is to provide **the best developer experience**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's built to be powerful, extensible, and full-featured. The key design goal is to provide **the best developer experience**.
```

Currently we repeat "k6 ..." too much.

> k6 is built to be powerful, extensible, and full-featured. The key design goals are **high performance and the best developer experience**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
k6 is built to be powerful, extensible, and full-featured. The key design goals are **the best developer experience** and high performance.
```
Based on the last company-wide discussion and the different perceptions of performance we got I guess we should at least reverse the order or reduce the emphasis on high performance. If we want to have it (I can understand that) then maybe should we explain it a bit more?

Author: This is a good point. I've just removed the "high performance."

This brings up a huge topic: What are the key design goals of k6? What gets sacrificed when a tradeoff has been made between performance and ease of use? Why implement libraries instead of having testers write their own helper functions.

These questions probably require participation from a large amount of stakeholders.
But, this discussion is too important to have in a side conversation about a Readme fix. I'm going to make a side issue.

> k6 comes with the batteries included:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Its core features are:
```

Author: I'm going to keep this, because "batteries included" is as of now a central design consideration of the application. I actually originally took it out, because it's jargony, but in a separate conversation with @sniku, I realized it's an important part of what k6 tries to be, so I put it back. Still I'd like a less metaphorical description, but let's let it stand for now :-).

Reviewer: I do think it's jargony, as you say, but OK. In that case, I think we can drop "the", so "k6 comes with batteries included:".

Author: Ah, on second thought I got "writer's remorse" for using a phrase that's metaphorical. Batteries included makes it sound like it could be a CD player, and k6 is not a CD player. I think "full-featured", in the previous paragraph, expresses what we want to say with "batteries included".

- **Configurable load generation.** Even lower-end machines can simulate lots of traffic.
- **Tests as code.** Reuse scripts, modularize logic, version control, and integrate tests with your CI.
- **A full-featured API.** The scripting API is packed with features that help you simulate real application traffic.

> - **An embedded JavaScript engine.** The performance of Go, the scripting simplicity of JavaScript.

Reviewer: Nit: I wouldn't say the benefits of JS are in its simplicity (Go is arguably a simpler language). The decision to script in JS was mostly because of its widespread use and familiarity.

> - **An embedded JavaScript engine.** The performance of Go, the scripting simplicity of JavaScript.

Author: ```suggestion
- **An embedded JavaScript engine.** The performance of Go, the scripting familiarity of JavaScript.
```

- **Multiple Protocol support**. HTTP, WebSockets, gRPC, and more.
- **Large extension ecosystem.** You can extend k6 to support your needs. And many people have already shared their extensions with the community!
- **Flexible metrics storage and visualization**. Summary statistics or granular metrics, exported to the service of your choice.

This is what load testing looks like in the 21st century.

## Example script

```js
import http from "k6/http";
import { check, sleep } from "k6";

> // test configuration

Reviewer 2: @MattDodsonEnglish do you plan to address this or not? If not, let me know so I can approve.

> Here's a basic k6 script.
> Besides simulating a user getting a resource, the test also verifies response data and response time over changing load.

Author: ```suggestion

```

export const options = {
  thresholds: {
    // Test that 99% of requests finish within 3000ms.
    http_req_duration: ["p(99) < 3000"],
  },
  // Ramp the number virtual users up and down
  stages: [
    { duration: "30s", target: 15 },
    { duration: "1m", target: 15 },
    { duration: "20s", target: 0 },
  ],
};

// Simulated user behavior
export default function () {
  let res = http.get("https://test-api.k6.io/public/crocodiles/1/");
  //validate response  status
  check(res, { "status was 200": (r) => r.status == 200 });
  sleep(1);
}
```

You can run scripts like this on the CLI, or in your CI, or across a Kubernetes cluster.

## Documentation

The docs cover all aspects of using k6. Some highlights include:
- [Get Started](https://k6.io/docs). Install, run a test, inspect results.
- [HTTP requests](https://k6.io/docs/using-k6/http-requests/). Have your virtual users use HTTP methods.
  Or, check the other [Protocols](https://k6.io/docs).
- [Thresholds](https://k6.io/docs/using-k6/thresholds). Set goals for your test, and codify your SLOs.

> - [Options](https://k6.io/docs/using-k6/k6-options). Configure your load, duration, TLS certificates, and much, much more

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Options](https://k6.io/docs/using-k6/k6-options). Configure your load, duration, TLS certificates, and much, much more.
```

- [Scenarios](https://k6.io/docs/using-k6/scenarios).
  Choose how to model your workload: open models, closed models, constant RPS, fixed iterations, and more.
- [Results output](https://k6.io/docs/results-output). Study, filter, and export your test results.
- [JavaScript API](https://k6.io/docs/javascript-api). Reference and examples of all k6 modules.
- [Extensions](https://k6.io/docs/extensions). Extend k6 for new protocols and use cases.

These links barely scratch the surface! If you're looking for conceptual information, you can read about [Test types](https://k6.io/docs/test-types/introduction/), [Test strategies](https://k6.io/docs/testing-guides/), or one of the many informative [Blog posts](https://k6.io/blog).

## Contribute

> If you want to contribute or help with the development of k6, start by reading [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md). Before you start coding, it might be a good idea to first discuss your plans and implementation details with the k6 maintainers-especially when it comes to big changes and features. You can do this in the [GitHub issue](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues) for the problem you're solving (create one if it doesn't exist).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to contribute or help with the development of k6, start by reading [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md). Before you start coding, it might be a good idea to first discuss your plans and implementation details with the k6 maintainers—especially when it comes to big changes and features. You can do this in the [GitHub issue](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues) for the problem you're solving (create one if it doesn't exist).
```

<img src="assets/github-hr.png" alt="---" />
<br/>

> **k6** is a modern load-testing tool, building on [our](https://k6.io/about) years of experience in the load and performance testing industries.

Author: ```suggestion
**k6** is a modern load-testing tool, building on [our years of experience](https://k6.io/about) in the load and performance testing industries.
```

> **k6** is a modern load-testing tool, building on [our years of experience](https://k6.io/about) in the load and performance testing industries.

Author: ```suggestion
**k6** is a modern load-testing tool, building on [our years of experience](https://k6.io/about) in the performance and testing industries.
```

> k6 is built to be simple, powerful, and extensible. Every commit to this repo was intended to create an application with **high performance and excellent developer experience**.

Author: ```suggestion
k6 is built to be simple, powerful, and extensible. Every commit to this repo aims to help create an application with **high performance and excellent developer experience**.
```

Some key features include:

- **Configuragle load generation.** Even lower-end machines can simulate lots of traffic.

> - **Tests as code.** Reuse scripts, share them, stick them in your CI, modularize, and version control.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Tests as code.** Reuse scripts, modularize logic, version control, and integrate tests with your CI.
```

> - **A full-featured API.** The scripting API is packed with features designed to simulate real application traffic.

Author: ```suggestion
- **A full-featured API.** The scripting API is packed with features that help you simulate real application traffic.
```

> - **An embedded JavaScript engine.** The performance of Go, the scripting simplicity of vanilla ECMAscript (without baggage from the wider JS ecosystem).

Reviewer: Two points here:
- "vanilla ECMAScript" doesn't really say much. What exactly would "non-vanilla" ES be?
- I think "without baggage from the wider JS ecosystem" is an unnecessary swipe.

So we might want to rephrase this as:

> The performance of Go, with the familiarity of JavaScript.

Author: Yeah you're totally right. I was under the influence of a discussion from last week :-).

Author: The drawback of what I just said is that ECMAScript is an absolutely hideous word, hard on both eye and ear.

Reviewer: I don't think we need to mention ES, unless we're discussing the language specification in the context of the features we support. Since this is a high-level overview, I think we can stick to just JavaScript. There's nothing "vanilla" about ES; or with k6/goja's implementation of it. Repeating JS doesn't bother me.

But maybe someone else can chime in.

> - **An embedded JavaScript engine.** The performance of Go, the scripting simplicity of vanilla ECMAscript (without baggage from the wider JS ecosystem).

Author: ```suggestion
- **An embedded JavaScript engine.** The performance of Go, with the familiar scripting of ECMAscript.
```

> - **An embedded JavaScript engine.** The performance of Go, the scripting simplicity of vanilla ECMAScript (without baggage from the wider JS ecosystem).

Author: ```suggestion
- **An embedded JavaScript engine.** The performance of Go, the scripting simplicity of  JavaScript.
```

- **Multiple Protocol support**. HTTP, WebSockets, gRPC, and more.

> - **Large extension ecosystem**. You can extend k6 to support your needs. Many already have and shared their work with the community!

Author: ```suggestion
- **Large extension ecosystem**. You can extend k6 to support your needs. Many already have done so and shared their extensions with the community!
```

> - **Large extension ecosystem.** You can extend k6 to support your needs. And many people have already shared their extensions with the community!

Reviewer: Maybe let's link to the Extensions docs page here?

Author: To stay consistent, I'd like to leave this section linkless, but I should add a link and bullet for extensions in the next section :+1:

> - **Large extension ecosystem**. You can extend k6 to support your needs. Many already have done so and shared their extensions with the community!

Author: ```suggestion
- **Large extension ecosystem**. You can extend k6 to support your needs. And many people have already shared their extensions with the community!
```

- **Flexible metrics storage and visualization**. Summary statistics or granular metrics, exported to the service of your choice.

This is what load testing looks like in the 21st century.

<p align="center">

>   <img width="600" src="assets/k6-demo.gif">

Reviewer 3: This Demo is 3 years old and likely should be updated.

Also as a recommendation can we not store "assets" that aren't part of the project in the repo and instead upload them to github by just copying them in an issue and then using the generated link (no need to post the issue).

- **Built-in HAR converter**: record browser sessions as [`.har` files](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/.har) and [directly convert them to k6 scripts](https://k6.io/docs/using-k6/session-recording-har-support)
- **Flexible metrics storage and visualization**: [InfluxDB](https://k6.io/docs/results-visualization/influxdb-+-grafana) (+Grafana), [JSON](https://k6.io/docs/getting-started/results-output/json) or [k6 Cloud](https://k6.io/docs/cloud/analyzing-results/overview)
- [**Cloud execution**](https://k6.io/docs/using-k6/cloud-execution) and distributed tests _(currently only on infrastructure managed by [us k6 cloud](https://k6.io/cloud), with native distributed execution in k6 [planned](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/140) for the near future!)_

There's even more! [See all features available in k6.](https://k6.io/docs/)

> Install

Reviewer 4: We reefer to this section from top:
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/5425600/201613738-30869e63-84fd-42a7-be0f-3ce8993ecf51.png)

So it's also should be adjusted

Author: Thanks, didn't realize that at all! Removed.

> The docs have much more! And if you want more conceptual information, you can read about [Test types](https://k6.io/docs/test-types/introduction/), [Test strategies](https://k6.io/docs/testing-guides/api-load-testing/), or one of the many informative [Blog posts](https://k6.io/blog)

Author: ```suggestion
These links barely scratch the surface! If you're looking for conceptual information, you can read about [Test types](https://k6.io/docs/test-types/introduction/), [Test strategies](https://k6.io/docs/testing-guides/), or one of the many informative [Blog posts](https://k6.io/blog)
```

> - [Javascript API](https://k6.io/docs/javascript-api). Reference and examples of all k6 modules.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- [JavaScript API](https://k6.io/docs/javascript-api). Reference and examples of all k6 modules.
```

I think almost everywhere it has `JavaScript`, so I guess better to keep it :relaxed:

> These links barely scratch the surface! If you're looking for conceptual information, you can read about [Test types](https://k6.io/docs/test-types/introduction/), [Test strategies](https://k6.io/docs/testing-guides/), or one of the many informative [Blog posts](https://k6.io/blog)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These links barely scratch the surface! If you're looking for conceptual information, you can read about [Test types](https://k6.io/docs/test-types/introduction/), [Test strategies](https://k6.io/docs/testing-guides/), or one of the many informative [Blog posts](https://k6.io/blog).
```

> If you want to contribute or help with the development of k6, start by reading [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md). Before you start coding, it might be a good idea to first discuss your plans and implementation details with the k6 maintainers-especially when it comes to big changes and features. You can do this either in the [GitHub issue](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues) for the problem you're solving (create one if it doesn't exist) or on the [k6 community forum](https://community.k6.io).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you want to contribute or help with the development of k6, start by reading [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md). Before you start coding, it might be a good idea to first discuss your plans and implementation details with the k6 maintainers-especially when it comes to big changes and features. You can do this in the [GitHub issue](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues) for the problem you're solving (create one if it doesn't exist).
```
I think we don't expect people to discuss contributions in the forum.

> To get help about usage, report bugs, suggest features and discuss k6 with other users see [SUPPORT.md](SUPPORT.md).

Author: ```suggestion
To get help about, report bugs, suggest features, and discuss k6 with other users, refer to [SUPPORT.md](SUPPORT.md).
```

> To get help, report bugs, suggest features, and discuss k6 with others, refer to [SUPPORT.md](SUPPORT.md).

Author: Good point! I added links in the readme and in the contributing file. I think it's more contributing than support, no? I'm okay with adding it to SUPPORT.md, too.
